Proposed release notes (#1830)
fyne-io/fyne: CHANGELOG.md

This file lists the main changes with each version of the Fyne toolkit.
More detailed release notes can be found on the [releases page](https://github.com/fyne-io/fyne/releases). 

## 2.0 - 22 January 2021

### Changes that are not backward compatible

These changes may break some apps, please read the 
[upgrading doc](https://developer.fyne.io/api/v2.0/upgrading) for more info
The import path is now `fyne.io/fyne/v2` when you are ready to make the update.

* Coordinate system to float32
  * Size and Position units were changed from int to float32
  * `Text.TextSize` moved to float32 and `fyne.MeasureText` now takes a float32 size parameter
  * Removed `Size.Union` (use `Size.Max` instead)

>   * Added fyne.Delta for difference based X, Y representation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Added fyne.Delta for difference-based X, Y representation
```

Reviewer: Also doesn't specify if Delta is `int` or `float32`-based.

  - `widget.SplitContainer` (now `container.Spilt`)
  - `widget.Group` (replaced by `widget.Card`)
  - `widget.Box` (now `container.NewH/VBox`)
* Many deprecated fields have been removed, replacements listed in API docs 1.4
  - for specific information you can browse https://developer.fyne.io/api/v1.4/

### Added

* Data binding API to connect data sources to widgets and sync data
  - Add preferences data binding and `Preferences.AddChangeListener`
  - Add bind support to `Check`, `Entry`, `Label`, `List`, `ProgressBar` and `Slider` widgets
* Animation API for handling smooth element transitions
  - Add animations to buttons, tabs and entry cursor
* Storage repository API for connecting custom file sources
  - Add storage functions `Copy`, `Delete` and `Move` for `URI`
  - Add `CanRead`, `CanWrite` and `CanList` to storage APIs
* New Theme API for easier customisation of apps
  - Add ability for custom themes to support light/dark preference
  - Support for custom icons in theme definition
  - New `theme.FromLegacy` helper to use old theme API definitions

> * Add fyne.Vector for simple x/y coordinates

Reviewer: Does `fyne.Vector` use `int` or `float32`?

It should be noted here, simply because other changes note this (Pos, TextSize, etc.)

* Add MouseButtonTertiary for middle mouse button events on desktop
* Add `canvas.ImageScaleFastest` for faster, less precise, scaling
* Add new `dialog.Form` that will phase out `dialog.Entry`
* Add `Scroll.OnScrolled` event for seeing changes in scroll container
* Add `TextStyle` and `OnSubmitted` to `Entry` widget
* Add support for `HintText` and showing validation errors in `Form` widget
* Added basic support for tab character in `Entry`, `Label` and `TextGrid`

### Changed

* Coordinate system is now float32 - see breaking changes above
* ScrollEvent and DragEvent moved to Delta from (int, int)
* Change bundled resources to use more efficient string storage

> * Desktop left and right mouse buttons renaming to `MouseButtonPrimary` and `MouseButtonSecondary`

Reviewer: The tense of this sentence still reads awkwardly in English.
[Should the changelog read in present or past tense?]

Consider:

```suggestion
* Left and Right mouse buttons on Desktop have been renamed to `MouseButtonPrimary` and `MouseButtonSecondary`
```

* Many optimisations and widget performance enhancements

> * Moving to new `container.New()` and `container.NewWithoutLayout()` constructors

Reviewer: Would help to say what this replaces, `fyne.NewContainer` and `fyne.NewContainerWithoutLayout`.

* Moving storage APIs `OpenFileFromURI`, `SaveFileToURI` and `ListerForURI` to `Reader`, `Writer` and `List` functions

### Fixed

* Validating a widget in widget.Form before renderer was created could cause a panic

> * Added file and folder support for mobile simulation support (#1470)

Reviewer: Is this a fix or an addition?

Author: A fix, the ticket listed is the bug filed.

Reviewer: [ only those with write access can mark a comment resolved, but this is. ]
